---
layout: post
title: "about C"
date:   2014-7-14 16:18:22
categories: c programming
---

# Words about C language #
To be honest with you, C is most popular and most widely used language on the
world. C is everywhere, from hardware handling to implementing really nice
programming languages. But, learning C is a pain, you struggle with pointers
here and there losing memory on every moment of your programm's lifetime.
Here I'll try to write some notes about this hard to master but very powerful
and, sometimes, beautiful language.

## C will strike you ##
Try to be very slow and patient. Don't loose your focus. Write your code
piece by piece and test it on every step. C does not forgive mistakes.

## Not a standart language ##
C isn't just like those fancy and nice scripting languages where you can just
dive in and code. C doesn't have proper error handling, C doesn't give you
nice and colorful error messages, it just silently fails. C allows for very
fancy programming tricks, but if you loose your attentian it will slap you in
your face. It hurts. Really.

## A language that just works ##
In reality C was not designed to be too friendly for us, the humans.
Brian kernighan and Dennis Ritchie developed C for other purposes -
to create Unix operating system. You can see that this language is very simple
and not very reach in constructs when comparing with OO languages like Java or
Ruby.  But anyway C does his job so smoothly that it's popularity just exploded.
With time C become most popular and most portable language in the world.
Even your TV, most likely, is programmed in C. It's true that C isn't most
programmer-friendly language but once you've done developing your product
you can run it anywhere. That's the advantage of C.


## C as a parent for other languages ##
There is so many languages that look syntactically like C.
You call this family
[C-like languages](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_C-based_programming_languages).
You can see there is a whole list of these languages. Some of these are:
- C++
- Java
- Objective-C
- JavaScript
- ...
Everyone has inherited some properties from C. That's awesome how a simple
language like C influenced a whole industry.

## C makes you smarter ##
But anyway, if this pain doesn't fear your ass, move on. Move and learn new
things about your computer and programming in general.
With C I've learned something about memory layout, stacks and heaps and all this
stuff. I can't say that now I'm a pro and I can drill down and problem I face.
But, you know, that's better than nothing.

Before learning some C bits I managed to solve my problems very stupidly.
Every time I faced a concept about I know more than nothing I gave up.
C educated me in a very drastic fashion. That moment when you learn about
basic data structures such as linked lists and stack and all this stuff is
amazing. When you finally understand this basic thing and your mind shines then
comes the Ahha! momment in your life. This moment is really awesome.
Things and moments like this one just makes your life better and you a smarter
person.
Just take some time and learn some hard thing you don't know.
This will be worthwile, I promise. 

## Conclusion ##
Finally, I can say that in our days of fancy web programming with JavaScript,
client side frameworks and all this stuff we, programmers, almost forget about
learning how stuff really works under the hood.
C language just brings the programming back to us. C give us intellect and
confidence in things we do from day to day. Yes, I know, this process will hurt,
just like it hurts to me, but it's worth.
